When you collect words by semantic domain, sometimes the same word is entered multiple times.
The Combine has a tool for finding duplicate entries and merging them together into a single entry.
Let’s log in at thecombine.app and select a project that has duplicate entries.
Click the “Data Cleanup” button in the top bar, then select “Merge Duplicates”.
The Combine will find sets of words with identical vernacular form and present them to you one set at a time.
In this project, the first set of potential duplicates is a pair of words with vernacular form “hard”. 
One has gloss “difficult” and the other has gloss “not soft”.
Are those two different senses of the same word or two different words?
If we aren’t sure, or don’t want to make that decision now, we can press the “Defer” button at the bottom.
That moves us to the next set and prevents the deferred set from coming up again here in the “Merge Duplicates” tool.
There’s another tool for considering sets that have been deferred.
We’ll look at that later in this video.
This second set of potential duplicates has two words with vernacular form “bank”.
One has gloss “side of river” and the other has gloss “financial institution”.
These are definitely different words—homographs that we do not want to merge.
Click the “Save & Continue” button at the bottom to confirm that they are distinct words.
This pair will not show up again in the “Merge Duplicates” tool, nor in the list of deferred sets.
Now we’ve seen what the “Save & Continue” and “Defer” buttons do.
One important note: if a user later changes any of the words in a set of potential duplicates, then that set can show up again in the “Merge Duplicates” tool.
For example, if you click “Save & Continue” for a set of words that are not duplicates, and then later add a semantic domain to a sense of one of the words, that set may come up again as potential duplicates.
Or if you click “Defer” for a set, and then another user adds an audio recording for one of the words, then that set will show up again in “Merge Duplicates”, rather than among the deferred sets.
Let’s move on.
The Combine asks if we want to keep merging.
If we click “No”, it will take us back to the “Data Cleanup” page.
If we click “Yes”, it will look for more sets of potential duplicates.
After The Combine can’t find any more words with identical vernacular form, it will suggest words with similar vernacular forms.
This will help catch duplicates where one of the words has a typo or is using alternate spelling.
Here we see two words with vernacular form “present”, but the second one has two “t”s at the end.
Hmm, that must be a typo.
A gift is spelled “p-r-e-s-e-n-t” not “p-r-e-s-e-n-t-t”.
You cannot edit the text in the “Merge Duplicates” tool.
However, you can click on the flag icon to add a flag and mention what needs to be fixed.
Note that for the flag to be saved, you must click “Save & Continue”.
We can leave the merging at any time by clicking on the “Data Cleanup” button, but the unsaved changes will be discarded.
Back in “Data Cleanup”, there’s a “Review Entries” tool.
That’s where you can review and edit all words in the project, and fix any words that were flagged while merging duplicates.
We’ll cover the “Review Entries” tool in another video.
Note that there is another option here that wasn’t here before: “Review Deferred Duplicates”.
Click on it to review sets of potential duplicates that were previously deferred.
Well, that’s all for this first tutorial video on the “Merge Duplicates” tool.
In the next video, we look at moving, deleting, and combining senses.
Have a wonderful day!
