Let’s see how to move lexical data from a project in FieldWorks to a project in The Combine.
To begin, open your project in FieldWorks.
Here I’m using an example project with words from the Naskapi language.
With the desired FLEx project open, click on the “File” menu, then select “Export…” near the bottom of the menu.
In the “Export” dialog that appears, click on the “Full Lexicon” “LIFT 0.13 XML” option, then click the “Export…” button.
Another dialog appears for you to select where the exported files will be saved.
You’ll need to create a new folder for the files.
I’m going to Desktop and clicking the “Make New Folder” button to create a Naskapi folder.
Select the new folder you just created and click the “OK” button.
In the File Explorer, go to the folder that contains this new folder.
Right click on the folder you just created for the export and select “Compress to ZIP file”.
See the ZIP file that was created?
This is what we are going to import into The Combine.
Now we open a web browser and go to thecombine.app.
Once we are logged in, we see two sections: “Select Project” and “Create Project”.
Under “Select Project” we can open a previously created project.
It IS possible to import the lexical data into an existing project, but we will look at that later.
Under “Create Project”, let’s create a new project using the export from FLEx.
First I’ll type a name for the project, in my case: Naskapi.
Notice there are fields below where we can specify the Vernacular Language and an Analysis Language for the project.
This is not necessary when we are importing data because project languages will automatically be gathered from the data.
To upload existing data, click the “Browse” button.
This brings up a file explorer dialog for you to select the exported LIFT data.
I’m navigating to Desktop where I exported my data, selecting the Naskapi ZIP file, and clicking the “Open” button.
See that The Combine has the text “File selected: Naskapi.zip”.
Great!
Under “Vernacular Language” there is now a drop-down menu.
Use it to select which of the languages in the data is to be the Vernacular Language.
The Combine only supports data entry for one vernacular language, which cannot be changed after project creation.
If you need to gather or organize lexical data for a different language, simply create another project.
Note that you cannot specify an analysis language.
This is because all analysis languages present in the ZIP file are automatically added, and you can add and remove analysis languages in the project at any time.
All that’s left is to click the “Create Project” button!
Once the project is created, you are taken to the project settings page.
To access this in the future you can click on the gear icon in the top bar.
Note that here in the “Languages” tab, we can see the Vernacular Language as well as review and change the Analysis Languages.
Let’s click on the “Import/Export” tab.
This is where you can import lexical data into an existing project.
That option is disabled now because we already imported data into this project.
Only one import is allowed for a project in The Combine.
This is also where we can export data from The Combine to import into FieldWorks, but that is a topic for another video.
I hope this video helps you get started with The Combine.
Have a wonderful day!
