In the first two videos about the Merge Duplicates tool, we covered all the basics.
If you are cleaning up data gathered with The Combine, the first two videos are all you need.
This video covers using the Merge Duplicates tool with data that was imported into The Combine.
Lexical data from FieldWorks can have information that is not supported in The Combine.
However, The Combine is designed to prevent accidental deletion of that information.
In this first set of potential duplicates, note that the top bar is yellow.
That indicates that these three imported entries have information that’s not visible in The Combine.
Such information could include (for example) annotations, etymologies, or variants.
Removing the final sense of a word in the Merge Duplicates tool results in that word being deleted.
Therefore, a lone sense on a protected word cannot be moved.
If we look at this second word, it has two senses.
It is a protected word, but we can move one of the senses without deleting the word.
So let’s move the sense with gloss “correct” to be a second sense of the first word.
Now that the second word only has one sense, that sense cannot be moved.
The third word is a duplicate of the first, but it cannot be deleted. So instead, we can add a flag.
Now click the “Save & Continue” button to save our work.
In this next set of potential duplicates, the tops of the words aren’t yellow but one of the senses is yellow—it is protected.
A sense of an imported word can be protected if it has sense-specific information that isn’t supported in The Combine.
Such information could include (for example) illustrations, reversals, or subsenses.
Protected senses can be moved.
However, protected senses cannot be deleted.
A protected sense also cannot be dropped into another sense.
If you want to merge two senses and one of them is protected, click-and-drag the other sense and drop it into the protected sense.
Merged senses can generally be reordered in the sidebar, but if the top sense is protected, you cannot move another sense above it.
Now click the “Save & Continue” button to save your work.
I hope this video helps you clean up lexical data imported into The Combine.
Have a wonderful day!
