This is the second video on the Merge Duplicates tool.
In the previous video, we looked at the difference between the “Save & Continue” button and the “Defer” button, and we introduced adding a flag to words.
This video gets to the heart of the merge tool: moving, deleting, and combining senses!
Our first set of potential duplicates is a pair of words with vernacular form “fly”.
The first word has 3 senses: “move through the air” and “go through the air” are definitely the same word.
However, the third sense with gloss “winged insect” is a different concept. It’s a better fit with the second word, which has gloss “housefly”.
To move a sense from one word to another, click on the sense and drag it to the other word.
Voila! Now the correct senses are together.
Wait a second… the two glosses of the first word are not different senses. They are the exact same idea expressed redundantly.
To delete the unnecessary sense, click-and-drag it over the delete icon in the bottom corner.
When the tile turns red, release and it disappears.
When you’re satisfied with your changes, click “Save & Continue”.
In the next set of potential duplicates, we have two words with vernacular form “fine”.
Now the senses we see in the first word are in fact two different senses of the same word, so we can leave it alone.
In the second word, we see one sense with gloss “abcdefg” and other with “fee; monetary penalty”.
These two aren’t related to the first word or to each other. Let’s create a new word with the final sense.
To create a new word, click-and-drag a sense into the empty column, and release.
Voila! Now we have three words.
Wait a second… the sense “abcdefg” in the second word is nonsense.
To delete it, click-and-drag it to the delete icon in the bottom corner.
When you delete the only sense in a word, the whole word is deleted.
See how the column disappeared and we are back to two words.
Great! Click “Save & Continue” to save that work.
In this third set of potential duplicates are two words with vernacular form “toe”.
The sense of the first word has gloss “leg digit” and semantic domain 2.1.3.2.
The sense of the second word has gloss “foot digit” and semantic domain 2.1.3.3.
These are the same sense of the same word.
To combine them, click-and-drag one sense over the other. When both senses are green, release.
Voila! The senses are combined into a single sense with both semantic domains.
Note that a sidebar opened up to show the senses that are being combined.
You can close and open the sidebar by clicking the sideways caret icon.
Now the gloss is “leg digit; foot digit”.
When senses are combined, all the semantic domains are preserved and all glosses of the same language are combined.
To change which gloss comes first, click-and-drag the tiles within the sidebar to reorder them.
If you decide to keep both glosses as separate senses, click-and-drag a sense out of the sidebar and back to the word column.
Now click the “Save & Continue” button to save this merge.
I hope this video helps you to clean up the data you’ve collected in The Combine!
If you want to use the Merge tool on data that was exported from FieldWorks and imported into The Combine, please check out the third Merge Duplicates video.
Have a wonderful day!
