Let’s see how to review all the words in your project on The Combine.
Click the “Data Cleanup” button in the top bar, then select “Review Entries”.
This tool allows you to filter and sort all your word entries.
You can also edit them here, but we look at that in another video.
Each row in the table has one entry with all its content.
The first column has the vernacular form of the entries.
Another column has the number of senses in the entry.
Another column has the entry’s glosses in the project analysis languages.
Note that the glosses from different senses are separated by a vertical line.
Another column has the semantic domains from all of the entries senses, sorted numerically.
Another column has the pronunciation audio recordings.
You can click on a green triangle to play the audio.
If the audio recording has a speaker selected, hover your cursor over the green triangle to see the speaker name.
Another column is for any note attached to the entry.
And another column shows if the entry was flagged (which is usually done in the Merge Duplicates tool).
Hover your cursor over the flag icon to see any text that was included in the flag.
Note that flags are only used within The Combine and will not export with your data.
There are two other columns—for definitions and for part of speech—that will only be available if the project has imported data with that information.
Other lexical info on imported data—including reversals, annotations, and morph types—are not viewable within The Combine.
But don’t worry, that information won’t be lost when you move your data back to FieldWorks!
If you want to change the order of the columns or hide any columns, click on the icon in the top corner with three vertical bars.
Click on the toggle next to a column name to hide or show that column.
Click-and-drag the two horizontal lines next to a toggle to change the order of the columns.
Note that the Vernacular column cannot be hidden or moved. It will always be visible as the first column.
And there are three buttons at the top of this menu, one to hide all columns, one to reset the order of the columns, and one to show all columns.
In the bottom corner, you can change the number of rows to show per page—the options are 10 entries per page, 100 entries per page, or all entries on a single page.
There are also buttons to go to the next page, the last page, the previous page, or the first page.
At the top of each column are several controls.
Click on the arrow icon to sort by that column.
You can sort by vernacular, alphabetically or reverse alphabetically.
You can sort by the number of senses, increasing or decreasing.
You can sort by the gloss text alphabetically or reverse alphabetically.
You can sort by lowest semantic domain number, increasing or decreasing.
You can sort by number of audio recordings, increasing or decreasing.
You can sort by note text, alphabetically or reverse alphabetically.
You can sort by whether or not the entry is flagged, and the flagged entries are sorted by the text of the flag.
The funnel icon at the top of each column can be used to add a filter.
In the vernacular, glosses, note, and flag columns, type text into that column’s filter and only entries containing the typed text in that column will be shown.
You can type a number into the filter of the number of senses column and entries with exactly that many senses will be shown.
Likewise, a number filter in the pronunciations column will only show entries with exactly that many audio recordings.
If you type a speaker name in the filter for the pronunciations column, then you can see all words with an audio recording by that speaker.
The filter on the semantic domains column uses domain ids.
Type “1.2” to show all entries that have a sense in domain 1.2.
To include a domain and all its subdomains, add a period at the end of your filter.
For example, the filter “2.5.” shows entries in domain 2.5 as well as domain 2.5.2, domain 2.5.1.1, domain 2.5.2, etc.
Finally, in the Domains, Pronunciations, and Flag column, you can type a space for the filter to show all entries that have something, anything in that column.
You can only sort by one column at a time, but you can have an active filter in as many columns as you want.
I hope this video helps you review your lexical data in The Combine.
In another video, we will talk about editing entries in this Review Entries tool.
Have a wonderful day!
