Let’s see how to edit words in your project on The Combine.
Click the “Data Cleanup” button in the top bar, then select “Review Entries”.
This table has all the word entries in your project.
In another video, we looked at how to sort and filter this table.
In this video, we look at how to edit an entry.
Each word in your project shows up as a row in this table.
To delete a word, click the rubbish bin icon at the right end.
A pop-up will ask you to confirm whether you want to delete the word.
Within the main body of this table, the only way to edit a word is to add or remove pronunciations.
Pronunciation audio recordings are in this column with red circle and green square icons.
To record a new pronunciation for a word, click-and-hold the red circle in the word’s row.
Say the word out loud once or twice, then release the button.
A new green triangle should appear in that row.
Click the green triangle to listen to the recording.
Hover your cursor over the green triangle to see the options for editing the recording.
To delete a recording, hold the Shift key and click the green triangle.
A pop-up will ask you to confirm whether you want to delete the audio recording.
To change the speaker on a recording, right-click the green triangle.
We’ll discuss pronunciation Speakers in another video.
If you are using a touch-screen, press-and-hold on the green triangle and a menu will appear with the options.
So far, we’ve seen how to delete a word entry and how to edit its pronunciation audio.
To edit the other parts of a word, click the pencil icon on the far left.
A dialog will open giving you all the details of that word and the ability to edit everything.
First is the Vernacular section.
Click in the text field to edit the vernacular form of the word.
Note that the background of the section changes from gray to yellow when the content of the section has been changed.
In the top corner of this dialog are two icons.
Click the green checkmark to save changes or the red X to cancel all changes.
If there are any changes when you click the red X, a pop-up will ask you to confirm whether to discard those changes.
Click the “Cancel” button to keep editing, or click the “Confirm” button to discard the edits and return to the table.
After the Vernacular section is the Senses section.
Let’s skip that for the moment and come back to it later in this video.
Below the Senses section is the Pronunciations section.
Here you can add, play, and delete audio recordings exactly the same way as in the table, which we discussed earlier in the video.
Below the Pronunciations section is the Note section.
Click in the text field to update the text of the note.
Click on the dropdown menu on the side if you want to change which analysis language is associated with the note.
The project’s analysis languages can be changed in the project settings, as discussed in another video.
Below the Note section is the Flag section.
Click on the flag icon to toggle between flagged (indicated by a red flag) and unflagged (indicated by a gray flag).
You can also click in the text field to add or edit text for the flag.
Note that if you add text here, the word is automatically flagged; the gray flag icon changes to red.
Or if you have a flag with text and click the flag icon to unflag the word, then the text disappears.
Let us now return to the Senses section.
Within this section there is a row for every sense.
To minimize this section and only show a summary of all the senses, click on the double diagonal arrows in the corner.
Click again to restore the full detailed view.
On the start of each sense row is a set of buttons.
The first column has vertical arrows; click on one of them to change the order of the senses.
The second column has a rubbish bin icon and a pencil icon.
Click on the rubbish bin icon to delete the sense.
Note that the sense card changes from light gray to dark gray, indicating that the sense will be deleted when edits to this word are saved.
Click on the rubbish bin icon a second time to restore the sense.
To edit a sense, click on the pencil icon.
A second dialog will appear that lets you edit all the sense’s information.
Here we see two sections: Glosses and Semantic Domains.
In the Glosses section, you must have at least one gloss for the sense.
If you delete all the glosses, The Combine will not let you save your changes.
In the Semantic Domains section, each domain tag has a little gray X button.
Click the gray X to remove that semantic domain tag.
To add the sense to a new semantic domain, click on the + button.
The semantic domain tree pops up for you to select a domain.
We discuss the various ways to navigate this semantic domain tree in another video.
If you don’t want to select a new semantic domain, click the X icon in the top corner to close the tree.
If the project has imported data and any sense in that data has definitions or a part of speech, there will be sections with that information here in this dialog.
Note that the Semantic Domains section has a yellow background, since we deleted one of the domain tags.
Just like the word editing dialog, this sense editing dialog has two icons in the top corner: a green checkmark to confirm changes and a red X to discard changes.
If there are any changes in this sense when you click the red X, a pop-up will ask you to confirm whether to discard those changes.
If there are any changes in this sense when you click the green checkmark, the sense editing dialog closes and now the card for that sense has a yellow background.
The changes to that sense are not yet permanent. They will be saved or discarded with all other word changes when you finish with the word editing dialog.
In the bottom row of the Senses section, there is a + icon; click this to add a new sense.
A sense editing dialog pops up for you to fill in the details of the new sense.
I hope this video helps you clean up your lexical data in The Combine.
Have a wonderful day!
