The Combine is designed for Rapid Word Collection, a method of gathering words by semantic domain.
In this video, we will see how to do Data Entry in The Combine to collect words.
Let’s go to thecombine.app and log in.
When you click on a project, the semantic domain tree appears.
Selecting your domain is the first step in Data Entry.
If you are doing a different project task (for example, in data cleanup or project settings), you can get back here by clicking the “Data Entry” button in the top bar.
There is another tutorial video about navigating the semantic domain tree or changing its language.
For this video, let’s select domain “2: Person” and start gathering words!
There are 4 things that can be included in a new word.
First, the vernacular form of the word in the project’s vernacular language.
Second, a gloss for the word in the project’s primary analysis language.
(You can change a project’s analysis language in the project settings.)
Third, a note about the word.
Fourth, audio recordings of the word’s pronunciation.
After adding the content of the new word, press the Enter key.
See how the word we just entered appears in the table?
If we hover our cursor over the note icon for that word, the text of the note appears.
Let’s add another word!
Now the vernacular form is required for a new entry, but the gloss, note, and audio are optional.
At any time, you can make changes to the words you have entered.
Let’s add a gloss and a note to the second entry.
Let’s change the vernacular form and delete the note on the first entry.
What can we do with the audio recordings?
If we hover our cursor over the play button (the green triangle icon), text appears describing what options are available.
Click on the play button to listen.
Hold the shift-key and click to delete it.
A dialog box will appear to confirm whether you want to delete the recording.
(If you are using a touch-screen, you can tap on the play button to play, or press and hold the button to bring up a menu.)
When you are done entering words, click the “Exit” button to return to the semantic domain tree.
(Don’t worry—the words you entered are already saved even if you close the window without clicking the exit button.)
If we select the same domain to enter more words, see how the words we previously entered in this domain are listed in a panel on the side?
If you are working in a narrow web browser window, the panel of previously entered words will not automatically appear.
You can bring it up by clicking the sideways carat icon at the bottom of the data entry box.
Let’s enter more words!
If you want to delete one of the words you added, click on the delete icon at the end of its row.
Warning: this will permanently remove the word and all its content!
If you want to start over on a word you are adding, click on the delete icon here on the bottom row.
It will reset the vernacular field, the gloss field, the note, and the audio recordings for the new word.
That covers how to gather words with Data Entry in The Combine!
When gathering words by semantic domain, often the same word will be added to multiple domains, resulting in lots of duplicate words.
The Combine has ways to help avoid or manage that issue.
In the next Data Entry video, we will look at entering multiple words with the same vernacular form.
Have a wonderful day!
